hi everyone I'm Cassidy and this video
is my review of the chaos walking series
by Patrick Ness this series is so so
fantastic I really recommend it to
anyone who's interested in sci-fi or
anything like that um raylene from
Padfoot and prongs oh seven actually
talked about these books and one of her
more recent reviews and she loved them
as well and she brought up some really
good points they are great books for
discussion and they bring up a lot of
themes that would be really cool to talk
about and raylene if you ever watched
this I definitely would like to discuss
them with you I'm going to talk about
each book individually but I'm going I'm
not going to give away any specific
spoilers or any big spoilers or anything
like that
so I honestly think you could watch this
entire video if you haven't read the
series but you know some things I talk
about in the later books that might
spoil some little things in the first
book so if you're uncomfortable with
that I guess just watch the review of
the first book and then click off I'm
just gonna read the summary from the
back of the knife of never letting go he
is this a very complex series and I'm
not so great at summaries so here we go
princess town isn't like other towns
everyone can hear everyone else's
thoughts in an overwhelming and
never-ending stream of noise just a
month away from the birthday that will
make him a man Todd in his dog manche
whose thoughts
Todd can hear to whether he wants to or
not stumble upon an area of complete
silence they find that in a town where
privacy is impossible something terrible
has been hidden a secret so awful that
Todd and man she must have run for their
lives but how do you escape when your
pursuers can hear your every thought so
yeah that is a perfect summary for it it
is very mysterious and very
action-packed and the idea that everyone
can hear each other's thoughts besides
women men can't hear with the woman's
thoughts but the women can hear the
men's thoughts which is raylene pointed
out there there is a reason for that and
it'd be really cool to talk about the
first book has a lot of action and a lot
of mystery and in the knife of never
letting go Todd is a younger boy he's
about to be a man and he's really
focused on that and the
but as a younger boy he's trying to find
out you know what kind of man he wants
to be and who he is and this plays a lot
into his past who his parents were and
how he was raised in the town he was
raised in there are a lot of Secrets
being kept about that town and the
authority so he is sort of questioning
things that he has been told all of his
life
so his character development really
really starts to really blossom in this
book also a character named viola is
introduced towards the beginning and she
becomes also a main character in the
whole story and their relationship is so
interesting because you know she can
hear his thoughts but he can't hear hers
and that adds a whole new depth to their
friendship in the second book that asked
in the answer I really really love how
you really don't know who to believe and
you sort of change sides on your ideas
about the villains or the not-so-great
characters um this is something that the
series does really often is you start to
believe one thing and you start to feel
one way and then it's changed completely
all the characters have so much depth
and so much complexity that when
something is revealed about them you are
just like oh my goodness what am I
supposed to think now in this book Todd
has to do a lot of things that he really
doesn't want to do and it makes him grow
up and it makes him question what kind
of person he is and he has to wonder
whether he's doing the right and the
wrong thing and what is the difference
between right and wrong and how do you
know that's a big theme in this one is
if you do one little right thing will it
right all the bad things you've done
these faculty v'n more in this one this
is the cycle are as sort of the alien
species that inhabit the new planet you
really start to wonder you know how does
this species operate how are they
connected to the planet
and what were they doing before the
humans came and took over their planet
also in this book it adds a point of
view of Biola's now it switches quick to
you which I really love and thought it
was super interesting because Viola kind
of goes on her own journey and has to
encounter some villains on her own the
third book is monsters of men and this
one I don't know it battles with the
first one for my favorite but it's a big
book it's over 600 pages and a lot of it
especially the beginning it's action so
if you don't like action I would not
recommend this series because it does
have a lot of action but I think it's
really interesting and its really worth
it because although it's action a lot of
things are happening in there that move
the story along
characters are being developed like that
is I think the number one thing about
this series is the development of the
characters it is absolutely phenomenal
especially in this book Todd and violas
relationship is the most beautiful thing
I have read about in a really long time
it has so much complexity to it that you
just can't help but love it and just
turn to mush every time they have a
moment in this one you really realize
how evil the villain is and Todd has to
decide who he's gonna stand behind and
what kind of person he's ultimately
going to be especially the third book
really brings up the idea of war and
sort of the psychological effects it has
on people and it specifically talks
about are you supposed to make war
personal if all of your loved ones are
also involved in the war are you
supposed to save them and help them at
the cost of maybe losing to your enemy
and it questions you know what's
important what's important in war what
is the ultimate goal this series ask a
lot of real-life questions that I think
if this situation were ever to happen if
our world if something happened to our
earth and we had to move to a new planet
think it brought up real problems that
we would have and psychological problems
as well as you know just the basic
the world-building is so great it's
actually really believable and you think
maybe this could actually happen so if
you like books that are actually packed
and thrilling and keep you on the edge
of your seat but also have a very deep
complexity to them and bring up a lot of
questions and themes that are great for
discussion definitely pick up this
series it will definitely make you sit
there and think about things thanks so
much for watching hope you're having a
great day bye